Fixes #38 - Update overview & migrate 2 articles from source (#39)
MicrosoftDocs/PowerShell-Docs-Modules: reference/docs-conceptual/PSScriptAnalyzer/create-custom-rule.md

---
description: This article provides a basic guide for creating your own customized rules.
ms.date: 03/22/2022
title: Creating custom rules
---
# Creating custom rules

PSScriptAnalyzer uses the [Managed Extensibility Framework (MEF)](/dotnet/framework/mef/) to import
all rules defined in the assembly. It can also consume rules written in PowerShell scripts.

When calling `Invoke-ScriptAnalyzer`, users can specify custom rules using the
**CustomizedRulePath** parameter.

This article provides a basic guide for creating your own customized rules.

## Basic requirements

### Functions should have comment-based help

Include the `.DESCRIPTION` field. This becomes the description for the customized rule.

```powershell
<#
.SYNOPSIS
    Name of your rule.
.DESCRIPTION
    This would be the description of your rule. Please refer to Rule Documentation
    for consistent rule messages.
.EXAMPLE
.INPUTS
.OUTPUTS
.NOTES
#>
```

### Output type should be **DiagnosticRecord**

```powershell
[OutputType([Microsoft.Windows.PowerShell.ScriptAnalyzer.Generic.DiagnosticRecord[]])]
```

### Each function must have a Token array or an Ast parameter

> The name of the _Ast_ parameter name must end with **Ast**.

Reviewer: Nit: Not sure if this should be bolded as it _seems_ like an exception to standard formatting. Applies to all other instances of `_parameter_`.
```suggestion
The name of the **Ast** parameter name must end with **Ast**.
```

$suggestedCorrections.add($correctionExtent) | Out-Null

[Microsoft.Windows.Powershell.ScriptAnalyzer.Generic.DiagnosticRecord]@{
    "Message"              = "This is a rule with a suggested correction"
    "Extent"               = $ast.Extent
    "RuleName"             = $PSCmdlet.MyInvocation.InvocationName
    "Severity"             = "Warning"
    "Severity"             = "Warning"
    "RuleSuppressionID"    = "MyRuleSuppressionID"
    "SuggestedCorrections" = $suggestedCorrections
}
```

### Make sure you export the function(s)

```powershell
Export-ModuleMember -Function (FunctionName)
```

## Example rule function

```powershell
<#
    .SYNOPSIS
    Uses #Requires -RunAsAdministrator instead of your own methods.
    .DESCRIPTION
    The #Requires statement prevents a script from running unless the Windows PowerShell
    version, modules, snap-ins, and module and snap-in version prerequisites are met.
    From Windows PowerShell 4.0, the #Requires statement let script developers require that
    sessions be run with elevated user rights (run as Administrator). Script developers does
    not need to write their own methods any more. To fix a violation of this rule, please

>     consider to use #Requires -RunAsAdministrator instead of your own methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    consider using #Requires -RunAsAdministrator instead of your own methods.
```
